README.md, before:

# 🥬 Fresh Supply Chain Intelligence System

**Complete Industry-Standard Implementation for BAMA Data Scientist Position**

A comprehensive data science solution for food waste prediction and supply chain optimization, specifically designed for BAMA's fresh produce operations in Norway and the Nordic region.

## 🎯 Project Overview

This project demonstrates all the key skills required for the BAMA Data Scientist position:

- **Python & SQL** - Core data processing and database operations
- **Machine Learning** - Computer vision, time series forecasting, and optimization
- **Statistics** - Advanced statistical analysis and uncertainty quantification
- **Data Analysis** - Comprehensive EDA and business insights
- **Model Building** - End-to-end ML pipeline with production deployment
- **Business Understanding** - Real-world problem solving for food industry

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
Fresh Supply Chain Intelligence System
├── 📊 Data Layer
│   ├── SQL Server Database (Time-series optimized)
│   ├── Redis Caching
│   └── Data Ingestion (USDA, IoT, Synthetic)
├── 🤖 ML Models
│   ├── Computer Vision (EfficientNet-B4)
│   ├── Time Series Forecasting (TFT)
│   └── Graph Neural Networks (Supply Chain)
├── 🔧 Optimization Engine
│   ├── Gurobi Solver
│   └── Supply Chain Network Optimization
├── 🌐 Production API
│   ├── FastAPI with Authentication
│   ├── Real-time Monitoring
│   └── WebSocket Support
└── 📈 Monitoring & Visualization
    ├── Prometheus Metrics
    ├── Grafana Dashboards
    └── Business KPIs
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Docker & Docker Compose
- Python 3.11+
- SQL Server (or use Docker)
- Redis (or use Docker)

### 1. Clone and Setup

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd Bama
cp env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration
```

### 2. Start Services

```bash
# Start all services with Docker Compose
docker-compose up -d

# Or run locally
pip install -r requirements.txt
python -m uvicorn api.main:app --reload
```

### 3. Initialize Database

```bash
# Run database schema
sqlcmd -S localhost -U sa -P YourStrongPassword123! -i data/sql_server_schema.sql

# Load sample data
python scripts/load_sample_data.py
```

### 4. Access Services

- **API Documentation**: http://localhost:8000/docs
- **Jupyter Notebooks**: http://localhost:8888
- **Grafana Dashboard**: http://localhost:3000
- **Prometheus**: http://localhost:9090

## 📊 Key Features

### 1. Computer Vision Quality Assessment
- **Model**: EfficientNet-B4 with transfer learning
- **Purpose**: Predict produce quality from images
- **Output**: Quality score, confidence, recommendations
- **Integration**: Real-time API endpoint

### 2. Demand Forecasting
- **Model**: Temporal Fusion Transformer (TFT)
- **Features**: Time series with external factors
- **Output**: 7-day forecasts with uncertainty intervals
- **Business Value**: Inventory optimization

### 3. Supply Chain Optimization
- **Engine**: Gurobi with Graph Neural Networks
- **Objective**: Minimize waste and transportation cost
- **Constraints**: Shelf life, capacity, temperature
- **Output**: Optimal routes and distribution plans

### 4. Real-time Monitoring
- **IoT Integration**: Temperature and humidity sensors
- **Alerts**: Quality violations and waste predictions
- **KPIs**: OTIF rate, temperature compliance, waste reduction
- **Dashboard**: Live monitoring with Grafana

## 🔧 API Endpoints

### Quality Prediction
```bash
POST /api/v1/predict/quality
{
  "image_url": "https://example.com/produce.jpg",
  "lot_number": "LOT_12345",
  "product_id": 1,
  "warehouse_id": 1
}
```

### Demand Forecasting
```bash
POST /api/v1/forecast/demand
{
  "product_id": 1,
  "warehouse_id": 1,
  "horizon_days": 7,
  "include_confidence": true
}
```

### Supply Chain Optimization
```bash
POST /api/v1/optimize/distribution
{
  "products": [1, 2, 3],
  "warehouses": [1, 2],
  "optimize_for": "cost"
}
```

## 📈 Business Impact

### Waste Reduction
- **Prediction Accuracy**: 85%+ for quality assessment
- **Waste Reduction**: 15-25% through optimization
- **Cost Savings**: 10-20% in transportation costs

### Operational Efficiency
- **OTIF Rate**: 95%+ on-time in-full delivery
- **Temperature Compliance**: 98%+ cold chain integrity
- **Inventory Turnover**: 20% improvement

### Sustainability
- **Carbon Footprint**: Reduced through optimized routing
- **Food Waste**: Minimized through predictive analytics
- **Resource Utilization**: Improved through demand forecasting

## 🛠️ Development

### Project Structure
```
Bama/
├── config/                 # Configuration files
├── data/                   # Data loading and schema
├── models/                 # ML models and algorithms
├── api/                    # FastAPI application
├── notebooks/              # Jupyter notebooks
├── scripts/                # Utility scripts
├── monitoring/             # Prometheus & Grafana configs
├── tests/                  # Unit and integration tests
└── docs/                   # Documentation
```

### Running Tests
```bash
pytest tests/ -v
```

### Code Quality
```bash
black .
flake8 .
mypy .
```

## 📚 Technical Details

### Database Schema
- **Products**: Fresh produce catalog with shelf life
- **Inventory**: Lot tracking with expiry monitoring
- **TemperatureLogs**: IoT sensor data (partitioned)
- **WasteEvents**: Waste tracking and analysis
- **SupplyChainNodes**: Network topology for optimization

### ML Models
- **Vision**: EfficientNet-B4 for quality assessment
- **Forecasting**: TFT for demand prediction
- **Optimization**: GNN + Gurobi for supply chain
- **Features**: Time series, images, IoT sensors

### Performance
- **API Response**: <200ms for predictions
- **Batch Processing**: 1000+ images/minute
- **Database**: Optimized for time-series queries
- **Caching**: Redis for frequently accessed data

## 🌍 BAMA Integration

### Norwegian Market Focus
- **Warehouses**: Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim, Stockholm, Copenhagen
- **Products**: Fresh fruits and vegetables
- **Compliance**: Norwegian food safety standards
- **Sustainability**: BAMA's environmental goals

### Business Alignment
- **Mission**: "En sunnere og ferskere framtid"
- **Values**: Sustainability, quality, innovation
- **Challenges**: Food waste, supply chain efficiency
- **Opportunities**: AI-driven optimization

## 📊 Monitoring & KPIs

### Real-time Metrics
- **Quality Score**: Average produce quality
- **Waste Rate**: Daily waste percentage
- **Temperature Violations**: Cold chain breaches
- **OTIF Rate**: On-time in-full delivery

### Business KPIs
- **Cost Savings**: Transportation and waste reduction
- **Customer Satisfaction**: Quality and freshness
- **Sustainability**: Carbon footprint reduction
- **Operational Efficiency**: Process optimization

## 🔒 Security & Compliance

### Authentication
- **JWT Tokens**: Secure API access
- **Role-based Access**: Different permission levels
- **API Keys**: Service-to-service communication

### Data Protection
- **Encryption**: Data at rest and in transit
- **GDPR Compliance**: Personal data protection
- **Audit Logging**: Complete activity tracking

## 🚀 Deployment

### Production Ready
- **Docker**: Containerized deployment
- **Kubernetes**: Scalable orchestration
- **Monitoring**: Prometheus + Grafana
- **Logging**: Centralized log management

### Cloud Integration
- **AWS**: S3 for data storage
- **Azure**: SQL Server hosting
- **GCP**: ML model serving
- **Multi-cloud**: Hybrid deployment

## 📞 Support

### Documentation
- **API Docs**: Interactive Swagger UI
- **Code Comments**: Comprehensive inline documentation
- **Tutorials**: Step-by-step guides
- **Examples**: Sample implementations

### Contact
- **Email**: data-science@bama.no
- **Slack**: #fresh-supply-intelligence
- **GitHub**: Issues and discussions

## 📄 License

This project is proprietary to BAMA Gruppen AS and is intended for evaluation purposes only.

---

**Built with ❤️ for BAMA's Data Science Team**

*Demonstrating expertise in Python, SQL, Machine Learning, Statistics, and Business Intelligence for the fresh produce industry.*

Commit message:

Remove BAMA references for generic industry use
- Updated README.md to remove company-specific references
- Changed dashboard titles to generic 'Fresh Supply Chain' branding
- Updated contact information and project description
- Made project suitable for general food industry demonstration

README.md, after:

# 🥬 Fresh Supply Chain Intelligence System

**Complete Industry-Standard Implementation for Food Industry Data Science**

A comprehensive data science solution for food waste prediction and supply chain optimization, designed for fresh produce operations in the Nordic region.

## 🎯 Project Overview

This project demonstrates advanced data science skills for the food industry:

- **Python & SQL** - Core data processing and database operations
- **Machine Learning** - Computer vision, time series forecasting, and optimization
- **Statistics** - Advanced statistical analysis and uncertainty quantification
- **Data Analysis** - Comprehensive EDA and business insights
- **Model Building** - End-to-end ML pipeline with production deployment
- **Business Understanding** - Real-world problem solving for food industry

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
Fresh Supply Chain Intelligence System
├── 📊 Data Layer
│   ├── SQL Server Database (Time-series optimized)
│   ├── Redis Caching
│   └── Data Ingestion (USDA, IoT, Synthetic)
├── 🤖 ML Models
│   ├── Computer Vision (EfficientNet-B4)
│   ├── Time Series Forecasting (TFT)
│   └── Graph Neural Networks (Supply Chain)
├── 🔧 Optimization Engine
│   ├── Gurobi Solver
│   └── Supply Chain Network Optimization
├── 🌐 Production API
│   ├── FastAPI with Authentication
│   ├── Real-time Monitoring
│   └── WebSocket Support
└── 📈 Monitoring & Visualization
    ├── Prometheus Metrics
    ├── Grafana Dashboards
    └── Business KPIs
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Docker & Docker Compose
- Python 3.11+
- SQL Server (or use Docker)
- Redis (or use Docker)

### 1. Clone and Setup

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd Fresh-Supply-Chain-Intelligence
cp env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration
```

### 2. Start Services

```bash
# Start all services with Docker Compose
docker-compose up -d

# Or run locally
pip install -r requirements.txt
python -m uvicorn api.main:app --reload
```

### 3. Initialize Database

```bash
# Run database schema
sqlcmd -S localhost -U sa -P YourStrongPassword123! -i data/sql_server_schema.sql

# Load sample data
python scripts/load_sample_data.py
```

### 4. Access Services

- **API Documentation**: http://localhost:8000/docs
- **Jupyter Notebooks**: http://localhost:8888
- **Grafana Dashboard**: http://localhost:3000
- **Prometheus**: http://localhost:9090

## 📊 Key Features

### 1. Computer Vision Quality Assessment
- **Model**: EfficientNet-B4 with transfer learning
- **Purpose**: Predict produce quality from images
- **Output**: Quality score, confidence, recommendations
- **Integration**: Real-time API endpoint

### 2. Demand Forecasting
- **Model**: Temporal Fusion Transformer (TFT)
- **Features**: Time series with external factors
- **Output**: 7-day forecasts with uncertainty intervals
- **Business Value**: Inventory optimization

### 3. Supply Chain Optimization
- **Engine**: Gurobi with Graph Neural Networks
- **Objective**: Minimize waste and transportation cost
- **Constraints**: Shelf life, capacity, temperature
- **Output**: Optimal routes and distribution plans

### 4. Real-time Monitoring
- **IoT Integration**: Temperature and humidity sensors
- **Alerts**: Quality violations and waste predictions
- **KPIs**: OTIF rate, temperature compliance, waste reduction
- **Dashboard**: Live monitoring with Grafana

## 🔧 API Endpoints

### Quality Prediction
```bash
POST /api/v1/predict/quality
{
  "image_url": "https://example.com/produce.jpg",
  "lot_number": "LOT_12345",
  "product_id": 1,
  "warehouse_id": 1
}
```

### Demand Forecasting
```bash
POST /api/v1/forecast/demand
{
  "product_id": 1,
  "warehouse_id": 1,
  "horizon_days": 7,
  "include_confidence": true
}
```

### Supply Chain Optimization
```bash
POST /api/v1/optimize/distribution
{
  "products": [1, 2, 3],
  "warehouses": [1, 2],
  "optimize_for": "cost"
}
```

## 📈 Business Impact

### Waste Reduction
- **Prediction Accuracy**: 85%+ for quality assessment
- **Waste Reduction**: 15-25% through optimization
- **Cost Savings**: 10-20% in transportation costs

### Operational Efficiency
- **OTIF Rate**: 95%+ on-time in-full delivery
- **Temperature Compliance**: 98%+ cold chain integrity
- **Inventory Turnover**: 20% improvement

### Sustainability
- **Carbon Footprint**: Reduced through optimized routing
- **Food Waste**: Minimized through predictive analytics
- **Resource Utilization**: Improved through demand forecasting

## 🛠️ Development

### Project Structure
```
Fresh-Supply-Chain-Intelligence/
├── config/                 # Configuration files
├── data/                   # Data loading and schema
├── models/                 # ML models and algorithms
├── api/                    # FastAPI application
├── notebooks/              # Jupyter notebooks
├── scripts/                # Utility scripts
├── monitoring/             # Prometheus & Grafana configs
├── tests/                  # Unit and integration tests
└── docs/                   # Documentation
```

### Running Tests
```bash
pytest tests/ -v
```

### Code Quality
```bash
black .
flake8 .
mypy .
```

## 📚 Technical Details

### Database Schema
- **Products**: Fresh produce catalog with shelf life
- **Inventory**: Lot tracking with expiry monitoring
- **TemperatureLogs**: IoT sensor data (partitioned)
- **WasteEvents**: Waste tracking and analysis
- **SupplyChainNodes**: Network topology for optimization

### ML Models
- **Vision**: EfficientNet-B4 for quality assessment
- **Forecasting**: TFT for demand prediction
- **Optimization**: GNN + Gurobi for supply chain
- **Features**: Time series, images, IoT sensors

### Performance
- **API Response**: <200ms for predictions
- **Batch Processing**: 1000+ images/minute
- **Database**: Optimized for time-series queries
- **Caching**: Redis for frequently accessed data

## 🌍 Industry Integration

### Nordic Market Focus
- **Warehouses**: Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim, Stockholm, Copenhagen
- **Products**: Fresh fruits and vegetables
- **Compliance**: Norwegian food safety standards
- **Sustainability**: Environmental impact reduction goals

### Business Alignment
- **Mission**: "En sunnere og ferskere framtid"
- **Values**: Sustainability, quality, innovation
- **Challenges**: Food waste, supply chain efficiency
- **Opportunities**: AI-driven optimization

## 📊 Monitoring & KPIs

### Real-time Metrics
- **Quality Score**: Average produce quality
- **Waste Rate**: Daily waste percentage
- **Temperature Violations**: Cold chain breaches
- **OTIF Rate**: On-time in-full delivery

### Business KPIs
- **Cost Savings**: Transportation and waste reduction
- **Customer Satisfaction**: Quality and freshness
- **Sustainability**: Carbon footprint reduction
- **Operational Efficiency**: Process optimization

## 🔒 Security & Compliance

### Authentication
- **JWT Tokens**: Secure API access
- **Role-based Access**: Different permission levels
- **API Keys**: Service-to-service communication

### Data Protection
- **Encryption**: Data at rest and in transit
- **GDPR Compliance**: Personal data protection
- **Audit Logging**: Complete activity tracking

## 🚀 Deployment

### Production Ready
- **Docker**: Containerized deployment
- **Kubernetes**: Scalable orchestration
- **Monitoring**: Prometheus + Grafana
- **Logging**: Centralized log management

### Cloud Integration
- **AWS**: S3 for data storage
- **Azure**: SQL Server hosting
- **GCP**: ML model serving
- **Multi-cloud**: Hybrid deployment

## 📞 Support

### Documentation
- **API Docs**: Interactive Swagger UI
- **Code Comments**: Comprehensive inline documentation
- **Tutorials**: Step-by-step guides
- **Examples**: Sample implementations

### Contact
- **Email**: contact@freshchain-ai.com
- **Slack**: #fresh-supply-intelligence
- **GitHub**: Issues and discussions

## 📄 License

This project is a demonstration of advanced data science capabilities for the food industry.

---

**Built with ❤️ for the Food Industry Data Science Community**

*Demonstrating expertise in Python, SQL, Machine Learning, Statistics, and Business Intelligence for the fresh produce industry.*
